# QTL-analysis

Sexual ornaments in chicken are of considerable interest in evolutionary biology, and are of interest both for themselves and their correlations with egg production. The following data is taken from an advanced intercross (an F2 population that was repeatedly crossed for another 6 generations). The assignment is to look at the data, calculate and check the marker map (pay attention to the order), and produce the appropriate diagrams. calculate the position and effect sizes of any QTL (Quantitative trait locus )that you detect, and calculate LOD curves. What happens when you do and don’t account for sex and bodyweight in the analysis?


STUDY POPULATIONS
The intercross utilised for this experiment was an eighth generation intercross between a line of selected White Leghorn (WL-L13) maintained from the 1960s and a population of RJF originally obtained from Thailand (RJF-T). This F8 advanced intercross line (AIL) is based on an F2 intercross that has been measured for comb mass and a variety of bone morphologies. The WL-OS and WL-L13 cross have been separated since approximately 1955, so although they come from the same base population of White Leghorn chickens they have now had over 50 years of separation. Hereafter the abbreviation F8-L13 for the F8 RJF-T/WL-L13 AIL. Chickens were maintained on standardised conditions and fed ad libitum, under a 12: 12 hour light/ dark regime. The F8-L13 cross used in this study was generated in 5 batches and reared at the research station of Linköping University, Sweden. Pens for these animals were 2m x 2m and comprised of three separate levels, perches and food were once again supplied ad libitum. Animals were culled at 212 days of age, with the comb surgically removed post-mortem and weighed, and both femoral bones extracted.

WL-L13/RJF-T F8
A total of 447 F8 individuals were assayed for comb measurements (216 males and 231 females). These individuals were generated from a total of 107 families using 122 F7 individuals (63 females and 59 males). Average family size 4.7 +/- 3.1 (mean, standard deviation). These were the continuation of an inter-cross initially based on 3 WL females and one RJF male, which were then expanded into 811 F2 progeny and then maintained with at a population size of approximately 100 birds per generation until the F7 generation. Of the F8 individuals, a total of 41 males were used as the basis of a qPCR experiment using comb base tissue to check for candidate genes at the major chromosome 3 QTL locus at 15.7Mb (12 RJF homozygotes, 15 WL homozygotes, 14 heterozygotes). These individuals came from two of the five batches used to produce the F8. Additionally, 20 females were used as the basis for a qPCR experiment using diaphyseal medullary bone (10 of each homozygote class, though one had no metaphyseal CT bone measurements, reducing the correlation with bone density to 19 individuals). The study was approved by the local Ethical Committee of the Swedish National Board for Laboratory Animals.
